docs/index.md, before:

---
organization: FleetDM
category: ["security", "device-management"]
icon_url: "/images/plugins/l-teles/fleetdm.svg"
brand_color: "#1A73E8"
display_name: FleetDM
name: fleetdm
description: Steampipe plugin for querying FleetDM hosts, software inventory, users, teams, policies, queries, packs, labels, and audit activities.
og_description: Query FleetDM with SQL! Open source CLI. No DB required.
og_image: "/images/plugins/l-teles/fleetdm-social-graphic.png"
engines: ["steampipe", "sqlite", "postgres", "export"]
---

# FleetDM + Steampipe

[Steampipe](https://steampipe.io) is an open-source zero-ETL engine to instantly query cloud APIs using SQL.

[FleetDM](https://fleetdm.com) is an open-source device management platform that helps you manage and secure your devices using osquery.

For example:

```sql
select
  id,
  hostname,
  platform,
  os_version,
  status,
  team_name
from
  fleetdm_host
order by
  hostname;
```

```
+----+----------------+----------+------------+--------+----------------+
| id | hostname       | platform | os_version | status | team_name      |
+----+----------------+----------+------------+--------+----------------+
| 1  | laptop-001     | darwin   | 13.2.1     | online | Engineering    |
| 2  | server-001     | linux    | 22.04 LTS  | online | Infrastructure |
+----+----------------+----------+------------+--------+----------------+
```

## Documentation

- **[Table definitions & examples →](/plugins/l-teles/fleetdm/tables)**

## Get started

### Install

Download and install the latest FleetDM plugin:

```bash
steampipe plugin install l-teles/fleetdm
```

### Configuration

Installing the latest fleetdm plugin will create a config file (`~/.steampipe/config/fleetdm.spc`) with a single connection named `fleetdm`:

```hcl
connection "fleetdm" {
  plugin = "l-teles/fleetdm"

  # FleetDM server URL (e.g., "https://fleet.example.com")
  # The plugin will attempt to append /api/v1/ if it's not present.
  server_url = "https://fleet.example.com"

  # FleetDM API Token
  # Generate this from your FleetDM instance (User Menu -> Settings -> API Tokens)
  api_token = "your_api_token"
}
```

* `server_url` - Your FleetDM server URL. The plugin will attempt to append `/api/v1/` if it's not present.
* `api_token` - Your FleetDM API token, which can be generated from your FleetDM instance (User Menu -> Settings -> API Tokens)

Commit message:

New tables: `fleetdm_software_title` table, `fleetdm_os_version`, new `fleetdm_fleet_maintained_app`,  `fleetdm_app_store_app` Updated `fleetdm_software_version` table

docs/index.md, after:

---
organization: FleetDM
category: ["security", "device-management"]
icon_url: "/images/plugins/l-teles/fleetdm.svg"
brand_color: "#1A73E8"
display_name: FleetDM
name: fleetdm
description: Steampipe plugin for querying FleetDM hosts, software inventory, Fleet-maintained apps & App Store apps, OS versions, users, teams, policies, queries, packs, labels, and audit activities.
og_description: Query FleetDM with SQL! Open source CLI. No DB required.
og_image: "/images/plugins/l-teles/fleetdm-social-graphic.png"
engines: ["steampipe", "sqlite", "postgres", "export"]
---

# FleetDM + Steampipe

[Steampipe](https://steampipe.io) is an open-source zero-ETL engine to instantly query cloud APIs using SQL.

[FleetDM](https://fleetdm.com) is an open-source device management platform that helps you manage and secure your devices using osquery.

For example:

```sql
select
  id,
  hostname,
  platform,
  os_version,
  status,
  team_name
from
  fleetdm_host
order by
  hostname;
```

```
+----+----------------+----------+------------+--------+----------------+
| id | hostname       | platform | os_version | status | team_name      |
+----+----------------+----------+------------+--------+----------------+
| 1  | laptop-001     | darwin   | 13.2.1     | online | Engineering    |
| 2  | server-001     | linux    | 22.04 LTS  | online | Infrastructure |
+----+----------------+----------+------------+--------+----------------+
```

## Documentation

- **[Table definitions & examples →](/plugins/l-teles/fleetdm/tables)**

## Get started

### Install

Download and install the latest FleetDM plugin:

```bash
steampipe plugin install l-teles/fleetdm
```

### Configuration

Installing the latest fleetdm plugin will create a config file (`~/.steampipe/config/fleetdm.spc`) with a single connection named `fleetdm`:

```hcl
connection "fleetdm" {
  plugin = "l-teles/fleetdm"

  # FleetDM server URL (e.g., "https://fleet.example.com")
  # The plugin will attempt to append /api/v1/ if it's not present.
  server_url = "https://fleet.example.com"

  # FleetDM API Token
  # Generate this from your FleetDM instance (User Menu -> Settings -> API Tokens)
  api_token = "your_api_token"
}
```

- `server_url` - Your FleetDM server URL. The plugin will attempt to append `/api/v1/` if it's not present.
- `api_token` - Your FleetDM API token, which can be generated from your FleetDM instance (User Menu -> Settings -> API Tokens)
